# Routinator ASPA VRP to BIRD2 function

This is a simple, sloppily written, program to turn the output of the following command:

```
routinator --enable-aspa vrps -f json -o dump.json --no-route-origins --no-router-keys
```

into a BIRD2 function you can use to perform ASPA validation.

(Note that to use the `--enable-aspa` you have to compile Routinator from source. I went over this in a [blog post I wrote](https://as51019.com/posts/aspa-bird2/).)

The resulting function is named `is_aspa_valid()` and you can use it to drop invalid paths with the filter line:

```
if (!is_aspa_valid()) then reject;
```

## Usage

To run, supply an input file via the `--input`/`-i` flag. This file should be the JSON output from the routinator `vrps` command **with ASPA enabled**.

By default, the resulting function will be written to stdout. If you'd like to write it to a file you can supply an output path in the `--output`/`-o` flag.

The `--verbose`/`-v` flag will show warnings.

The `--help`/`-h` flag will show the following help menu:

```
Usage: ./gen [OPTIONS]
Options:
    --help,    -h   Show this menu.
    --verbose, -v   Show warnings.
    --input,   -i   The input file generated by \`routinator\`. (required) 
    --output,  -i   The file to output the BIRD2 function to.
    --strict,  -s   Consider paths without ASPA invalid (NOT RECOMMENDED).
```

## Strict mode

> ⚠️ Strict mode is **NOT RECOMMENDED** for **ANY** use case.

By default the program runs with strict mode turned **off**. This means that if an ASN hasn't published any ASPA 'certificates' (are they called that?) their routes won't be filtered out.

If you **turn strict mode on** then the resulting function will **always return false** unless a previous condition (a.k.a. an ASPA 'certificate' exists) returns true.



## "Compilation" to a stand-alone binary

This is as easy as running the following command, though you will need to install Deno:

```
deno compile --allow-read --allow-write ./gen.ts
```

You can also download a pre-built binary from the releases page.

## License

Licensed under MIT as it was the easiest one to copy paste 🐱